
# Homework43
# Chingpo Lin

----

## 2. What is Spring and Springboot? What is the benfits of using Springboot?

Spring and Spring Boot are popular Java frameworks used for building enterprise-level, robust, and scalable applications

Benefits of using Spring Boot:
- Rapid development
- Simplified Configuration
- Production-Ready
- Rich Ecosystem
- Community and Support

---

## 3. What is IOC and What is DI?

- IOC (Inversion of Control): IOC is a design principle in which the control over the flow of a program is shifted from the application code to a container or framework
- DI (Dependency Injection): Dependency Injection is a specific implementation of the Inversion of Control principle. It is a pattern where the dependencies required by a class (its collaborators or services it relies on) are "injected" into the class rather than the class creating or searching for them itself.

---

## 4. What is  @CompnonentScan?
The @ComponentScan annotation is a feature provided by the Spring Framework, particularly in the context of Spring's support for component scanning and automatic bean registration. 

---

## 5. How to define which package spring need to scan in xml and annotaiton? 

both in XML and annotation-based configurations, you can use the appropriate configuration element or annotation (<context:component-scan> in XML and @ComponentScan in annotation) to define which package(s) Spring should scan for components. The component scanning process enables Spring to automatically discover and register beans based on stereotype annotations within the specified packages.

---

## 6. What is  @SpringbootApplication?

@SpringBootApplication is a meta-annotation provided by Spring Boot, which combines three core annotations into one. It is commonly used as the main entry point of a Spring Boot application.

---

## 7. How many ways wo can define a bean?

- XML configuration
- annotation
- Java-based configuration
- XML and Java combination
- Component Scanning

---

## 8. What is default bean name for  @Component and  @Bean?

- @Component: class name and lowercase first letter
- @Bean: method name

---

## 9. What is the difference between  @component and  @service,@repository?

- @Component is a generic stereotype annotation used to mark a class as a Spring bean.
- @Service is a specialization of @Component and is typically used to annotate classes that represent services in the business layer of the application
- @Repository is also a specialization of @Component and is used to annotate classes that represent data access objects (DAOs) in the persistence layer.

---

## 10. How many annotaitons we can use to inject the bean?

- @Autowired type -> name
- @Resource name -> type
- @Inject
- @Value

---

## 11. Tell me the three types to do dependency injection(How can we inject the beans in Spring)? Which way is better and why?

- Constructor injection
- Setter injection
- Field injection

constructor injection is generally considered the best practice for several reasons:
- Testability
- Explicit Dependencies
- Deterministic Object Creation

---

## 12. If we have multiple beans for one type, how to set one is primary? and how to let the spring to pick one bean to inject if no primary

@primary on bean, or @Qualifier("name") on injection variable

---

## 13. What is the difference between BeanFactory and ApplicationContext in Spring?

- BeanFactory is the root interface for accessing the Spring IoC container.
- ApplicationContext is a sub-interface of BeanFactory and provides additional functionality and features beyond basic bean management.

BeanFactory is the basic interface for managing beans in the Spring IoC container and provides lazy initialization and simple bean management functionality. ApplicationContext extends BeanFactory and adds more advanced features, including eager initialization, resource management, AOP support, and additional bean scopes.

---

## 14. What is the Scope of a Bean?  and list the examples for each scope.

The singleton scope is the default scope in Spring. When a bean is defined with the singleton scope, the Spring IoC container creates a single instance of the bean, and that same instance is shared across all requests for that bean within the container. Subsequent requests for the bean will receive the same shared instance.  
The prototype scope defines that a new instance of the bean is created each time it is requested from the container. Each request for the bean results in the creation of a new, unique instance of the bean.
@Scope("prototype")

---

## 15. Configure a bean using xml. If bean has parameters/dependencies, how can we configure the bean?
<constructor-arg value="30" />
<property name="someProperty" value="Some value" />





