
# Homework23
#Chingpo Lin

-----

## 1. What is generic in Java?  and type the generic code by yourself.

generic provides a way to create classes, interfaces, and methods that can work in different data types.


---

## 6. What is Runtime Exception? could you give me some examples?

This is a type of exception occur during the runtime of program which may caused by logical errors, invalid input, or unexpected conditions.
There are some runtime example:

- NullPointerException
- ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException
- IllegalArgumentException

---

## 7. Could you give me one example of NullPointerException?

`String str = null;`  
`int length = str.length();`

---

## 8. What is the Optional class?

optional class is a container object that could contain a non-null value.

---

## 9. What are the advantages of using the Optional class?

It provides better readability and safe check for null value.

--

## 10. What is the @FunctionalInterface?

the functional interface is an interface that only contain exactly one abstract method and can be used for lambda expression or method reference.

---

## 11. what is lamda?

kind of anonymous function in other language, which can represent a method in a more concise way.

--- 

## 12. What is Method Reference?

method reference is a short notation to refer a method without executing it. It provides a way to pass a method as a reference or construct a lambda expression to call that method.

---

## 13. What is Java 8 new features?

- Lambda
- Functional Interface
- Stream
- Method Reference
- Default Method in Interface
- Optional

---

## 14. Lambda can use unchanged variable outside of lambda? what is the details?

- Local variable: need this variable never change after initialization.
- Global variable: can use any time when lambda can access that scope.

---

## 15. Describe the newly added features in Java 8?

- Lambda: for concise anonymous function call.
- Functional Interface: can use lambda expression as method argument or return types.
- Stream: easy way to process collections of data in a functional programming style.
- Method Reference: allow referring to methods without executing them.
- Default Method in Interface: allow adding complete method to interface.
- Optional: address the issue of null value and null pointer exception.

---

## 16. Can a functional interface extend/inherit another interface?

yes, but we need the child functional interface still have exactly one abstract method to be considered as a functional interface

---

## 17. What is the lambda expression in Java and How does a lambda expression relate to a functional interface?

lambda is introduced for concise anonymous function call or method implementation.  
functional interface could be implemented by lambda expression directly and concisely.

---

## 18. In Java 8, what is Method Reference?

allow referring to methods without executing them.

---

## 19. What does the String::ValueOf expression mean?

it's a method reference in Java who refers to valueOf method in String.

---

## 20. What are Intermediate and Terminal operations?

- Intermediate operations: operations that handling data change
    - filter(Predicate<T> predicate)
    - map(Function<T, R> mapper)
    - flatMap(Function<T, Stream<R>> mapper)
    - distinct()
    - sorted()
    - limit(long size)
    - skip(long n)
- Terminal Operations: operations that finalized the data
    - forEach(Consumer<T> action)
    - collect(Collector<T, A, R> collector)
    - count()
    - anyMatch(Predicate<T> predicate)
    - allMatch(Predicate<T> predicate)
    - noneMatch(Predicate<T> predicate)
    - findFirst()
    - findAny()
    - reduce(BinaryOperator<T> accumulator)
    
---

## 21. What are the most commonly used Intermediate operations?
According to usage:
    - map
    - filter
    - others (flatMap, distinct, sorted, limit, skip)

---

## 22. What is the difference between findFirst() and findAny()?

findFirst() is to find first element in stream, findAny is to find a random element in stream

---

## 23. How are Collections different from Stream?

- Data Structure: Collections represent data structure while streams are just a sequence of elements that can be processed in a pipeline.
- Eager vs Lazy Evaluation: Collections have an eager evaluation strategy while Stream have a lazy evaluation strategy. (defer until a terminal operation is invoked, so more efficient)
- Mutability: Collections can change while streams do not change the source of data.
- One-time Usage: Collections can be iterated multiple times, while streams cannot be reused.