
# Homework40
#Chingpo Lin

-----

## 2.  explain how the below annotaitons specify the table in database?

`@Column(columnDefinition = "varchar(255) default 'John Snow'") private String name;`

columnDefinition = "varchar(255) default 'John Snow'" defines the column with the varchar data type and a maximum length of 255 characters. The default 'John Snow' part sets a default value of 'John Snow' for the column.

`@Column(name="STUDENT_NAME", length=50, nullable=false, unique=false) private String studentName;`
name = "STUDENT_NAME" specifies that the column in the database table should be named STUDENT_NAME.  
length = 50 sets the maximum length of the column to 50 characters.  
nullable = false indicates that the column cannot contain null values.  
unique = false specifies that the column does not require unique values.  
By using this annotation, the persistence provider will create a column named STUDENT_NAME in the associated database table with the specified properties.  

---

## 3. What is the default column names of the table in database for  @Column ?
first_name and operating_system

---

## 4. What are the layers in springboot application? what is the role of each layer?

- Presentation Layer (Controller or REST API):
    - Responsible for handling incoming HTTP requests.
    - Invokes the appropriate service layer methods to process the requests.
- Service Layer:
    - Contains the business logic and acts as an intermediary between the presentation and data access layers.
- Data Access Layer (Repository or DAO):
    - Responsible for interacting with the underlying database or data storage system.
- Domain Layer (Entity or Model):   
    - Typically consists of POJOs (Plain Old Java Objects) that map to database tables or other data sources.
- Configuration Layer:
    - Contains the application configuration files and classes.
- Utility Layer:
    - Provides reusable utility classes or helper methods used throughout the application.
    
---

## 5.  Describe the flow in all of the layers if an API is called by Postman.

- Postman sends an HTTP request to the specific URL and endpoint of the API.
- The Service layer receives the request from the Controller and performs the application's business logic.
- The Service layer may invoke methods from the Data Access layer to interact with the underlying database or data storage.
- The Domain layer contains data models, business rules, and encapsulated logic related to the entities.
- The Configuration layer provides the necessary configuration for components like database connections, security, logging, etc.
- The Utility layer provides reusable utility classes or helper methods used throughout the application.

---

## 6. What is the application.properties? do you know application.yml?
configuration of springboot,` yes, same thing but different style


