## 1. Learn MarkDown and show all of basic usage in the ShortQuestions/README.md
Seen in the ShortQuestions/README.md

## 2. practice git using the platform. list the git commands you learned
```
git init
git add .
git commit -m "message"
git branch
git commit --amend
git pull
git checkout branchname
git push
git rebase main
git merge branchname
```

## 3. What is the basic steps to init a git repo in you local ?

```
git init
```

## 4. How to clone a repo from Github ?
```
git clone https://github.com/exampleuser/example-repo.git
```
## 5.  How to create a new branch and checkout to that branch ?
```
git branch branchname
git checkout branchname
```
or
```
git checkout -b branchname
```
## 6.  How to merge the branch_test to master branch in command ? show me the commands
```
git checkout master
git merge branch_test
git commit -m "Merge branch_test into master"
```

## 7.  How to stash your new code before leaving branch branch_learn_stash and pop your stash when you checkout back to **branch_learn_stash ? try commands way and intellij way.
```
git stash save "Stash new code"
git checkout other_branch_name
git checkout branch_learn_stash
git stash pop
```
or
```
Go to "Version Control" and click on the "Local Changes" tab.
Click on "Stash Changes" button. 
Switch to a different branch.
Return to the branch_learn_stash branch.
Click "Unstash Changes" button.
```
## 8.  How do you understand PR is based on Branch?
A PR is typically based on a branch in the repository. It represents a set of proposed changes made within that branch. The branch serves as a separate development line that can be reviewed, discussed, and ultimately merged into another branch, such as the main branch.

## 9.  What is maven role ? what it be used to do ?
Maven is a build automation and project management tool used primarily for Java-based projects. It plays a crucial role in managing the build lifecycle, dependencies, and project structure for Java projects. It simplifies the development process, enhances project maintainability, and promotes best practices by providing a standardized and automated approach to building and managing Java applications.

## 10.  What is the lifecycle of maven? could you tell me the details ?
The lifecycle defines the sequence in which Maven executes various tasks during the build process.
### Clean Lifecycle:
* clean: Deletes any files and directories generated by the previous build.

### Default Lifecycle:
* validate: Validates the project structure and verifies that all necessary information is available.
* compile: Compiles the project's source code.
* test: Runs unit tests using a suitable testing framework.
* package: Packages compiled code into an appropriate format, such as JAR or WAR.
* integration-test: Performs integration tests on the packaged code.
* verify: Verifies that the integration tests pass successfully.
* install: Installs the packaged code into the local repository for use by other projects.
* deploy: Copies the packaged code to a remote repository for sharing with other developers.
### Site Lifecycle:
* site: Generates project documentation and reports.
* site-deploy: Deploys the generated site documentation to a remote repository or server.

## 11.   what is the difference between package and install in maven lifecycle ?
The "package" phase is responsible for creating a packaged artifact from the project's compiled code, while the "install" phase not only creates the artifact but also installs it into the local repository, making it available for use by other projects or modules on your machine.

## 12.   What is plugins in maven, list some plugins.
In Maven, plugins are extensions that provide additional functionality to the build process. They allow you to execute specific goals and perform various tasks during the different phases of the Maven lifecycle.
* maven-compiler-plugin
* maven-surefire-plugin
* maven-jar-plugin
* maven-war-plugin
* maven-dependency-plugin
* maven-site-plugin
## 13.   In chuwa0620, create a MavenProject directory, then create a maven Module using Intellij, named it as belows:
1.  groupID: com.chuwa.learn
2.  artifactID: java-core

## 14. Do Code Review: Go over at least 3 PRs in your repo, tried to leave some useful or useful comments in other students' PR, please don't merge it.
