#### List all of the annotations you learned from class and homework to annotaitons.md

#### What is MVC pattern?

The Model View Controller (MVC) design pattern **specifies that an application consist of a data model, presentation information, and control information**. 

#### What is Front-Controller?

This design pattern **enforces a single point of entry for all the incoming requests**. All the requests are handled by a single piece of code which can then further delegate the responsibility of processing the request to further application objects.

#### What is DispatcherServlet? please decribe how it works.

DispatcherServlet abstracts away the following tedious and boilerplate tasks and focus on
useful business logic:
Mapping an HTTP request to a certain processing method
Parsing of HTTP request data and headers into data transfer objects (DTOs)or
domain objects
Model-view-controller interaction
Generation of responses from DTOs, domain objects, 

1. Tomcat 收到Http Request，将request交给DispatcherServlet来处理
2. DispatcherServlet 拿着该req去call HandlerMapper,
3. HanlerMapper将会找到对应的Controller以及对应的method，并返回给
dispactherServlet
4. dispatcherServlet将call该Controller对应的method，此时会触发call service,
repository and database.
5. 然后结果(ModelAndView)再通过Controller返回。⼀般是返回view name, ⼀个字
符串，⽐如list-customers. ⽽数据是要set到Model 中。
6. dispatcerServlet拿着view name去call view Resolver,
7. View Resolver会帮助我们找到view template, ⽐如list-customers.jsp
8. 此时我们有了view template, 也有了数据model，则可以call View engine去帮助我
们把数据放到view templatel⾥，然后转换成纯粹的HTML
9. 该HTML就是前端显⽰的内容，最终返回给browser。



#### What is JSP and What is ModelAndView？(please google to have a basic knowlege)

JSP (JavaServer Pages):

JSP is a technology used to create dynamic web content within Java web applications. It's a server-side technology that allows Java code to be embedded within HTML, XML, or other types of text documents. JSP files are compiled into servlets by the web container, allowing developers to generate dynamic content using familiar HTML-like syntax with embedded Java code.

ModelAndView:

In the context of Spring MVC, `ModelAndView` is a holder for both a model (data) and a view (template). It's used to define the data that needs to be displayed and the view that will be used to render that data.

#### Could you please google any other servlets(理解多少是多少，不要花太多时间，知道servlet的名字就⾏。)

HTTPServlet, GenericServlet, JSPServlet

#### How many web server do you know? (Tomcat, Jetty, Jboss)

Tomcat,  Jetty

#### clone this repo, and run it in you local.

a. https://github.com/TAIsRich/springmvc5-demo
b. Notice that you need to configure the Tomcat by yourself. tutorial in
the slides.
c. find out the APIs in controlelr and call some APIs, In slides, I also list
some API.
d. remeber to create a database for this project
e. all details in the slides.