## HW2-1

## 1.What is generic in Java?
Class<T>, Interface<T>, Method<T>

## 6. What is Runtime exception in Java?
Exception that is checked at run-time.
for example: ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException, NullPointerException

## 7. NullPointerException?
When you try to access a member with a null reference.

## 8. What is Optional class?
A container object which may or may not contain a non-null value.

## 9. What are the advantages of using Optional Class?
No need for Null checks

## 10. What is Functional Interface?
Interface with only one abstract method.

## 11. What is Lambda?
provide the implementation of a functional interface

## 12. What is Method reference?
String::length, System.out::println, refer to a method without invoking it.

## 13. Java8 new features?
- Lambda
- Method reference
- Optional
- Stream
- Date/Time API

## 14. Lambda can use unchanged variable outside of lambda? what are the details?
Yes, but the variable must be final or effectively final.

## 16. Can a functional interface extend/inherit another interface?
Yes, but the interface must have only one abstract method.

## 20. What are Intermediate and Terminal operations in Stream?
- Intermediate: filter, map, sorted, distinct, limit, skip, peek
- Terminal: forEach, forEachOrdered, toArray, reduce, collect, min, max, count, anyMatch, allMatch, noneMatch, findFirst, findAny

## 23. How are Collections different from Stream?
- Collections are in-memory data structures
- Stream is a pipeline, no storage
- Stream is lazy, no computation until terminal operation

