## HW2-1

## 1.Practice Collection - checked

## 2.What is the checked exception and unchecked exception in Java, could you give one example?

- Checked exception: Exception that is checked at compile-time.
- Unchecked exception: Exception that is checked at run-time.
- Example of unchecked exception:
  ```java
  public class Main {
      public static void main(String[] args) {
          int[] arr = new int[5];
          try {
              arr[5] = 10;
          } catch (ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException e) {
              System.out.println("ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException");
          }
      }
  }
  ```
- Example of checked exception:
  ```java
    public class Main {
        public static void main(String[] args) {
            try {
                FileReader file = new FileReader("file.txt");
            } catch (FileNotFoundException e) {
                System.out.println("FileNotFoundException");
            }
        }
    }
  ```

## 3.Can there be multiple finally blocks in Java?

No

## 4.When both catch and finally return values, what will be the final result ?

finally

## 5. What is the difference between throw and throws?

- throw: throw an exception in code
- throws: declare an exception at class level

## 6. We want to catch all the exceptions so put Exception at the end.

## 7. Why finally always execute in Java?

Because finally is executed after try and catch blocks regardless of whether an exception is thrown or not.

## 8. What are the types of design patterns in Java?

- Creational
- Structural
- Behavioral

## 9. What are the SOLID Principles?

Single Responsibility Principle, Open-Closed Principle, Liskov Substitution Principle, Interface Segregation Principle, and Dependency Inversion Principle.

## 10. How can you achieve thread-safe singleton patterns in Java ?

use synchronized keyword
use singleton
use lock

## 11. What do you understand by the Open-Closed Principle (OCP) ?

In object-oriented programming, the open–closed principle (OCP) states "software entities (classes, modules, functions, etc.) should be open for extension, but closed for modification"
