## HW2-1

## 1.volatile in Java?
- volatile keyword in Java is used as an indicator to Java compiler and Thread that do not cache value of this variable and always read it from main memory.
- we wnat to use volatile for Singleton instance because we want to make sure that any thread that reads instance variable will get the most recent value.

## 2. create a new Thread? Using Thread Pool?
- extend Thread class
- Implement Runnable interface, Callable interface
- new CachedThreadPool(): Creates a thread pool\
  new SingleThreadExecutor(): Creates a single thread. 

## 3. difference between runnable and callable?
- callable can return a value and throw checked exception

## 4. difference between t.start() and t.run()?
- t.start() will create a new thread and execute the code inside run() method concurrently.
- t.run() will execute the code inside run() method in the current thread.

## 5. Thread class or Runnable interface, which is better?
- Runnable interface is better. Because Java does not support multiple inheritance, so if we extend Thread class, we cannot extend any other class.

## 6. thread status?
- New
- Runnable
- Blocked
- Waiting
- Timed Waiting
- Terminated

## 7. difference between sleep() and wait()?
- sleep() is a static method of Thread class, wait() is a method of Object class.
- sleep() does not release the lock, wait() releases the lock.

## 8. what is deadlock?
- two or more waiting for locked resources held by each other.

## 9. how do threads communicate with each other?
- notify(), notifyAll()

## 10. what is join()?  
- wait for a thread to complete

## 11. what is yield()?
- A yield() method is a static method of Thread class and it can stop the currently executing thread and will give a chance to other waiting threads of the same priority.

## 12. thread pool?
- a pool of threads that can be reused to execute tasks.

## 13. What is Executor Framework in Java, its different types and how to create these executors?
- Executor is an interface and it is used to execute the Runnable objects without creating a new thread for every task.
- FixedThreadPool：线程数固定的线程池；
- CachedThreadPool：线程数根据任务动态调整的线程池；
- SingleThreadExecutor：仅单线程执⾏的线程池。

## 14. shutdown() and shutdownNow() of executor?
- shutdown() will just tell the executor service that it can't accept new tasks, but the already submitted tasks continue to run.
- shutdownNow() will do the same AND will try to cancel the already submitted tasks by interrupting the relevant threads.

## 15. Atomic classes? when do we use it?
Classes that provide atomic operations on single variables. multiple threads can access the variable concurrently, but only one thread can modify the variable at a time.

## 16. concurrent collections?
- LinkedBlockingDeque: A thread-safe variant of LinkedList/ArrayDeque.
- ConcurrentHashMap: A high-performance, thread-safe implementation of the Map interface.
- CopyOnWriteArrayList: A thread-safe variant of ArrayList where modifications create a new copy of the underlying array, allowing for safe concurrent read operations.
- BlockingQueue: A collection that supports blocking and waiting for elements to be available or space to become available for insertion.

## 17. what kind of locks in java?
- ReentrantLock
- ReadWriteLock
- StampedLock

## 18. what is the difference between class lock and object lock?
- class lock is static, object lock is non-static.

## 19. what is future and completableFuture?
- Future is a placeholder for a result that will be available in the future.
- CompletableFuture is a Future that can be explicitly completed or cancelled.

## 20. what is ThreadLocal?
- ThreadLocal is a class in Java that allows you to store data that will be accessible only by a specific thread.