# Hw22

### 2. What is the checked exception and unchecked exception in Java, could you give one example?
Checked exceptions are the exceptions that are checked at compile-time. Unchecked exception are the exception that are checked in run-time exception. 
Checked exception: IOException
Unchecked exception: NullPointerException

### 3. Can there be multiple finally blocks?
No, for the try,catch,finally block, there can only be one finally block serve as the code block executed regardless if an exception appears.

### 4. When both catch and finally return values, what will be the final result?
Finally block

### 5. What is Runtime/unchecked exception ? what is Compile/Checked Exception?
Checked exceptions are the exceptions that are checked at compile-time. Unchecked exception are the exception that are checked in run-time exception. 

### 6. What is the difference between throw and throws ?
Throw is to deal with exception that will happen, when throw statement is executed, it immediate terminate the current execution path and give control to the exception handler. 
Throws is to deal with exception that will potential happen, when throws is executed, it need to deal with the exception with try catch block or send the exception to the caller.

### 7. Run the below three pieces codes, Noticed the printed exceptions. why do we put the Null/Runtime exception before Exception ?
For the three pieces of code, the first one output ArithmeticException, the second one output NullPointerException, the third one RuntimeException. We put a Null/Runtime exception before exception so that if none of the exceptions is triggered, then the Null/Runtime exception will be triggered.

### 7. Why finally always be executed ?
The finally block is designed to be executed after try and catch block. It make sure the final operation will be executed, even if the previous try and catch have a return statement, the system will ignore the return statement and return the value in finally block.

### 8. What are the types of design patterns in Java ?
Creational pattern: it focus on creating objects, and make sure the pattern is flexible, efficient and reusable. 
Structural pattern: it focus on simplifying the design structure by indentifying relationships.
Behavioral pattern: it focus on interaction and communication between objects, which will reduce and manage the complex interations.

### 9. What are the SOLID Principles ?
SOLID Principles stands for:
1.Single Responsibility Principle (SRP): a class should only have one reason to change or it should have only one responsibility job. It can help classes easier to understand, test, and maintain.
2.Open/Closed Principle (OCP): Software entities should be open for extension but closed for modification. It promotes the use of abstractions, interface, and inheritance to allow adding new feature without impacting the existing code.
3.Liskov Substitution Principle (LSP): Subtypes must be replacable for the base types, object of a super class should be replacable with the object of subcalss without affacting the correctness of the program.
4.Interface Segregation Principle (ISP): Clients should not be forced to depend on the unnecessary interface, which promote the usage of interface to be smaller, specific and cohesive.
5.Dependency Inversion Principle (DIP): Hige level module should not depend on low level module, abstractions should not depend on details.

### 10. How can you achieve thread-safe singleton patterns in Java ?
We can achieve thread-safe singleton pattern by using Eager Initilization and Lazy Initialization. Eager initilization create the instance when the class is loaded, which make sure the thread is safe. Lazy initilization is to initilize the instance when it is first requested.

### 11. What do you understand by the Open-Closed Principle (OCP) ?
It is one of the SOLID principle, it means Software entities should be open for extension but closed for modification. It promotes the use of abstractions, interface, and inheritance to allow adding new feature without impacting the existing code.

### 12. (SOLID-L)Liskov’s substitution principle states that if class B is a subtype of class A, then object of type A may be substituted with any object of type B. What does this actually mean? (from OA ) choose your answer.
C


