# hw41

### 2.how do you do the debug?
By putting breakpoint in the code line and use the debug mode to run the code, it will stop at the breaking point and output the current value of the variable that being assigned before the breakpoint. Then, by checking the value of those variable and by checking the path of the variable that passed by, we can debug the program and find where is the problem comming from.

### 3.What is DTO, VO, Payload, DO, model?
DTO: stand for Data Transfer Object, it is used for transferring data between different layers without exposing the underlying data model directly.
VO: stand for value object, a Value Object is a design pattern that represents an immutable object whose equality is determined by the values it holds, rather than its identity
Payload: a payload refers to the actual data or information carried by a message, packet, or frame within a communication protocol.
DO: stand for domain object, A Domain Object represents an entity or concept within the application's domain model. It encapsulates both data and behavior specific to that domain, forming the core of the application's business logic.
model: model represent for the schema or structure of the data. It defines the entities (tables), their attributes (columns), relationships, and constraints. 

### 4.What is @JsonProperty("description_yyds")
The @JsonProperty annotation is commonly used in Java to customize the serialization and deserialization of Java objects to and from JSON data. In one case:
```java
public class Product {
    private Long id;

    @JsonProperty("description_yyds")
    private String description;

    // Constructors, getters, and setters (omitted for brevity)
}
```
we are telling Jackson that we should use description_yyds as key instead of default value: description.

### 5.do you know what is jackson?
Jackson is a popular JSON processing library for Java. It provides a set of powerful APIs to work with JSON data, allowing Java developers to serialize Java objects to JSON and deserialize JSON back into Java objects. Jackson is widely used in the Java ecosystem for handling JSON data in various scenarios, such as web applications, RESTful APIs, and data exchange between systems.

### 6.What is spring-boot-stater? what dependecies in the below starter? do you know any starters?
Spring-boot-starter is a special type of dependency that contain a set of dependencies. By using a spring boot starter, it can simplify the setup and configuration steps. spring-boot-starter-web is a starter for building web application using spring MVC. There are several other starts:
spring-boot-starter-data-jpa: A starter for using Spring Data JPA for database access.
spring-boot-starter-security: A starter for adding Spring Security to your application.
spring-boot-starter-test: A starter for writing unit and integration tests.

### 7. do you know  @RequestMapping(value = "/users", method = RequestMethod.POST) ? could you list CRUD by this style?
@RequestMapping(value = "/users", method = RequestMethod.POST) is an annotation that means map the incomming HTTP to a specific methods in a controller class. This annotation means the path is /users and the method that this controller class will handle is POST method.
CRUD:
create: @PostMapping
read: @GetMapping(path)
update: @PutMapping(path)
delete: @DeleteMapping(path)

### 8. What is ResponseEntity? why do we need it?
ResponseEntity is spring framework class that represent an HTTP response, it is formed by response body, headers and status code. It is used to encapsulate the response data that your Spring MVC controller methods return, allowing you to have full control over the HTTP response that is sent back to the client.

### 9. What is ResultSet in jdbc? and describe the flow how to get data using JDBC
It is an interface for retrieve and manage database query results. The steps are:
1. load driver
2. connect to the database
3. define the sql statement
4. create a statement object
5. use statement object to execute sql statement
6. recieve ResultData and transfer result data to java object
7. close connection and other resource

### 10. What is the ORM framework?
ORM stand for object-relational mapping, it is a framework that allow developer work with database with the object oriented programming language. With ORM, developer can work with database and eliminate the need to manual mapping between object-oriented data structure and database tables.

### 12. What is the serialization and desrialization?
Serialization is the process to convert an object to linear format like JSON. During serlization, internal state of the object is encoded into specific format that can later be used to recreate the original object. Deserialization is the reverse process.

### 13. use stream api to get the average of the array [20, 3, 78, 9, 6, 53, 73, 99, 24, 32]
```java
    int[] array = {20, 3, 78, 9, 6, 53, 73, 99, 24, 32};
    double average = Arrays.stream(array).average().orElse(0);
```