# HW45

### 2. What is the authentication?
Authentication is the process of verifying the identity of a user, device, or system. It's a fundamental aspect of system security that helps protect sensitive data and functionality from unauthorized access.

### 3. What is the authorization?
Authorization is the process of determining what permissions an authenticated user has for a specific resource. In other words, after a user's identity is verified through authentication, the user is then granted or denied specific privileges to resources like data, files, services, etc. Authorization is all about managing access control - determining who can do what.

### 4. What is the difference between authentication and authorization?
authentication is to verifying who the user is and authorization is when the user is verified, the process of grant or denying the permission for the user to access certain resources.

### 5. What is HTTP Session?
HTTP Session is a way to store information about, or change settings for, a user session over multiple HTTP requests. When a user visits a website, a session can be created to track the user's activity and store data like items in a shopping cart, user preferences, or form data. This is particularly important for web applications where you need to track user activity and states.

### 6. What is Cookie?
A cookie, also known as an HTTP cookie or browser cookie, is a small piece of data stored on the user's computer by the web browser while browsing a website. Cookies were designed to be a reliable mechanism for websites to remember stateful information or to record the user's browsing activity.

### 7. What is the difference between Session and Cookie?
- A session is stored server-side, meaning the data is saved on the server but cookie is stored client-side, meaning the data is saved in the user's browser.
- Sessions are more secure because the data is not exposed to the client, Cookies are less secure, as the data can be seen and potentially manipulated by the client.
- Data in a session can be any type of object or data structure, limited by the memory of the server, Cookies can only store string data and are limited in size (typically 4KB).
- Session lifetime is managed by the server, and sessions typically expire after a certain period of inactivity, The lifetime of a cookie is set when the cookie is created and can be a fixed point in time or a duration of time.

### 8. How do we use session and cookie to keep user information across the the  application?
Cookies are used to store small pieces of data directly on the user's browser. They can be used to keep user information like preferences, authentication tokens, or other non-sensitive data that you want to persist across visits to the site.
Sessions are used to store data on the server about a user's interactions with the site. This is more secure and allows for storing more complex data.

### 9. What is JWT?
JWT stands for JSON Web Token. It is an open standard (RFC 7519) that defines a compact, self-contained way for securely transmitting information between parties as a JSON object. This information can be verified and trusted because it is digitally signed.

### 10. What is the spring security filter?
Spring Security is a powerful and highly customizable framework for authentication and authorization in Java applications. One of the key components of Spring Security is its filter chain, which is essentially a chain of Spring-managed beans that are applied to incoming HTTP requests to implement security controls.

### 11. decribe how do JWT work
First, client post the authenticate with the user name and password to the server, after verify, server generate JWT and return to the client. Then the client use get method to get information need from server, after verfying the JWT, the server will send back the response.

### 12. Do you use any Encoder to encode Password?
Yes, It's a best practice not to store users' passwords in plain text in the database. Instead, you should store a hashed (encoded) version of the password, and compare the hashed versions when the user logs in.

### 13. What is UserDetailService? AuthenticationProvider?AuthenticationManager?  AuthenticationFilter?
- UserDetailsService: This is an interface for core user information. The key method loadUserByUsername(String username) is used to retrieve user details. It's used by the DaoAuthenticationProvider to load details about the user during authentication.
- AuthenticationProvider: This is an interface for a class that can perform an authentication. It has a method authenticate(Authentication authentication) that takes an Authentication request and returns a fully populated Authentication object if it can handle the request.
- AuthenticationManager: This is an interface that represents a manager of AuthenticationProviders. It has one method authenticate(Authentication authentication) which is typically capable of handling multiple different types of authentication requests. If no provider can perform the authentication, it should fail.
- AuthenticationFilter: These are classes that provide different types of authentication for processing the request. Examples include UsernamePasswordAuthenticationFilter for form login or BasicAuthenticationFilter for HTTP Basic authentication. These filters are placed in the security filter chain and handle specific authentication processes, e.g., retrieving credentials from the request, checking the credentials against a user database or an OAuth provider, etc.

### 14. What is the disadvantage of Session? how to overcome the disadvantage?
- Scalability: When your application scales and needs to be distributed across multiple servers, managing sessions can be complex. To solve this issue, we can replicate session data across all servers, or store session data in a shared database or cache accessible to all servers. 
- Memory Usage: Since session data is stored in memory, a large number of sessions or large amounts of data in a session can cause the server to run out of memory. To solve this issue, You can implement policies to limit the amount of data stored in a session, how long sessions are kept alive, and when they are created. 

### 15. how to get value from application.properties?
In a Spring application, you can retrieve values from the application.properties file using the @Value annotation or by binding properties to an object.
```java
@Value("${property.name}")
private String propertyName;
```

Another way to retrieve values from application.properties is by binding properties to an object using the @ConfigurationProperties annotation. This can be useful if you have a group of related properties.
```java
@ConfigurationProperties(prefix = "com.example")
public class MyProperties {

    private String propertyName;

    // getters and setters
}
```

### 16. What is the role of configure(HttpSecurity http) and configure(AuthenticationManagerBuilder auth)?
configure(HttpSecurity http): This method is used to configure how requests are secured. Specifically, it decides which request paths should be secured and which ones should not, what permissions are required for each path, what happens when a user tries to access a secured resource without the necessary permissions, and so on.

configure(AuthenticationManagerBuilder auth): This method is used to configure user-specific details, such as how users are retrieved (from a database, an in-memory store, etc.) and how passwords are encoded.

### 17. What is Spring security authentication and authorization?
Authentication: In Spring Security, the AuthenticationManager interface is responsible for this process, with its most commonly used implementation being ProviderManager. It has a authenticate(Authentication) method which takes an Authentication request as a parameter and returns a fully authenticated object with the user's details if the authentication is successful.

Authorization: In Spring Security, once the user has been authenticated, an Authentication object is stored in the SecurityContext and used to perform authorization checks. The @Secured or @PreAuthorize annotations can be used on methods to specify the roles or permissions required to execute the method. The HttpSecurity.authorizeRequests() method in the security configuration is used to define access rules to URL paths.