# HW46

### 3.What is the Aspect Oriented Programming?
Aspect Oriented Programming is the technique to implement cross-cutting concerns, which defines functions that is required for multiple places accross the application.

### 4.What are the advantages and disadvantages of Spring AOP?
advantage:
- easy to config
- utilize Spring IOC container for DI
- can use @AspectJ annotation for aspect creation
disadvantage:
- debug will be challenging
- only methods with a public visibility will be recommended, not those with a private, protected, or default visibility

### 5.What is Aspect in Spring AOP?
It is a combination of advice and pointcuts. By using @Aspect annotation, a class can be define as an aspect

### 6.What is Pointcut in Spring AOP?
It is a set that include one or multiple join point at which advice is given.

### 7.What is the Join point in Spring AOP?
The exect place that an aop aspect is applied.

### 8.What does it mean by Advice and its types in Spring AOP?
The action that before or after the method executed. It could be @Before, @After, @AfteThrowing, @AfterReturnning, @Arounding

### 10.When to use Spring Batch?
Since Spring Batch is to process large volume of data, we usually perform it when:
data migration, data transformation, periodic data processing, paralled processing, long running tasks.

### 11.How Spring Batch works?
The Spring Batch will be started by the job launcher, it will link a job to be executed and a JobRepository to store metadata. A job a whole process that need to be executed, it inlcude mulitple steps. A step is an independent specific piece of job, and made up of a ItemReader, ItemProcessor, ItemWritter, which are used to read in data, transform and process data, and output data. Metadata of the running job will be store in the JobRepository which provide CRUD operation for JobLauncher, Job and Step.

### 12.How can we schedule a Spring Batch Job?
We can schedule a Spring Batch Job with the TaskScheduler.
```java
@Autowired
JobLauncher jobLauncher;

@Autowired
Job importUserJob;

TaskScheduler scheduler = new ConcurrentTaskScheduler();
```
and schedule job:
```java
scheduler.schedule(new Runnable() {
    @Override
    public void run() {
        try {
            jobLauncher.run(importUserJob, new JobParameters());
        } catch (Exception e) {
            e.printStackTrace();
        }
    }
}, new PeriodicTrigger(5, TimeUnit.SECONDS));
```
or in Spring boot, we can scheduling a job can be as simple as using @Scheduled annotation on the methods along with @EnableScheduling annotation on a configuration class.

### 13.What is the cron expression?
A cron expression is a string representing a schedule in time used by cron, a job scheduler in Unix-like operating systems. This type of expression is used to determine the timing of recurring tasks like backups, system updates, or sending emails.

### 14.What is the spring task?
Spring Task is a feature of the Spring Framework that allows you to schedule tasks to run at fixed times, after fixed delays, or at fixed-rate intervals. It provides an abstraction over the native Java Timer and ScheduledExecutorService classes, making it easier to schedule tasks.
```java
import org.springframework.scheduling.annotation.Scheduled;
import org.springframework.stereotype.Component;

@Component
public class MyTask {

    @Scheduled(fixedRate = 5000)
    public void performTask() {
        System.out.println("Regular task performed at "
          + new Date());
    }

    @Scheduled(cron = "0 0/1 * 1/1 * ?")
    public void performTaskUsingCron() {
        System.out.println("Regular task performed using Cron at "
          + new Date());
    }
}
```

### 15.When to use Spring task?
When you want to schedule the time of the task to be executed. For example, Recurring Tasks, Async Execution, Background Jobs, Fixed Delay and Fixed Rate Tasks.

### 16. What is Filter and any filter example?
In the context of web development and the Java Servlet API, a Filter is an object that can transform the header and content (or both) of a request or response. Filters are typically used to perform tasks such as authentication/authorization, logging, compression, encryption, and locale and character encoding control.
Here is an example of logging filter:
```java
import javax.servlet.*;
import javax.servlet.http.HttpServletRequest;
import java.io.IOException;

public class LoggingFilter implements Filter {
    @Override
    public void init(FilterConfig filterConfig) throws ServletException {
        // Initialization logic
    }

    @Override
    public void doFilter(ServletRequest request, ServletResponse response, FilterChain chain) throws IOException, ServletException {
        HttpServletRequest req = (HttpServletRequest) request;
        System.out.println("Request URI: " + req.getRequestURI());
        // Continue the execution to next filter or target
        chain.doFilter(request, response);
    }

    @Override
    public void destroy() {
        // Cleanup logic
    }
}
```

### 17.What is the Interceptor? What we can do with interceptor?
Interceptor is used to intercept incoming requests before they reach their target handling methods (controllers). It provides a mechanism to inject logic at the different points of request processing: before the request handling, after the request handling, and after completion of the request.
- preHandle(HttpServletRequest request, HttpServletResponse response, Object handler): This method is called before the target handler method is invoked. You can use this method to prepare the resources needed for the handler, check permissions, log requests, or even stop the processing of the request by returning false
- postHandle(HttpServletRequest request, HttpServletResponse response, Object handler, ModelAndView modelAndView): This method is called after the handler method has been executed and before the view is rendered. You can use this method to add or modify model data that will be used in the view, adjust the response, or even replace the view
- afterCompletion(HttpServletRequest request, HttpServletResponse response, Object handler, Exception ex): This method is called after the request has completed its processing. This is a good place for cleaning up resources, logging results, handling exceptions, etc

### 18.In Interceptor, What is preHandle? What is postHandle?
- preHandle(HttpServletRequest request, HttpServletResponse response, Object handler): This method is called before the target handler method is invoked. You can use this method to prepare the resources needed for the handler, check permissions, log requests, or even stop the processing of the request by returning false
- postHandle(HttpServletRequest request, HttpServletResponse response, Object handler, ModelAndView modelAndView): This method is called after the handler method has been executed and before the view is rendered. You can use this method to add or modify model data that will be used in the view, adjust the response, or even replace the view

### 19.What is Swagger?
Swagger is an open-source software framework that helps developers design, build, document, and consume RESTful web services. It's a set of tools and specifications to help developers write APIs that are easy to understand, maintain, and consume.
It include:
- API Design and Documentation
- API Client SDK Generation
- API Testing
- Support for API development