1. See Annotation.md
2. The **Model View Controller** (MVC) design pattern specifies that an application consist of a data model, presentation information, and control information. The pattern requires that each of these be separated into different objects. MVC is more of an architectural pattern, but not for complete application. MVC mostly relates to the UI / interaction layer of an application. You’re still going to need business logic layer, maybe some service layer and data access layer. 
3. The front controller design pattern means that all requests that come for a resource in an application will be handled by a single handler and then dispatched to the appropriate handler for that type of request. The front controller may use other helpers to achieve the dispatching mechanism.
4. The DispatcherServlet is **the front controller in Spring web applications**. It's used to create web applications and REST services in Spring MVC. In a traditional Spring web application, this servlet is defined in the web.
5. It stands for **Java Server Pages**. It is a server side technology. It is used for creating web application. It is used to create dynamic web content. In this JSP tags are used to insert JAVA code into HTML pages.ModelAndView **extends Object**. **Holder for both Model and View in the web MVC framework**. Note that these are entirely distinct. This class merely holds both to make it possible for a controller to return both model and view in a single return value.
6. There are two types of servlets in Java: generic servlets and HTTP servlets. Generic servlets are protocol-independent and can handle any type of request, while HTTP servlets are specific to the HTTP protocol and are used to handle HTTP requests and responses.
7. Apache, Tomcat, Nginx, Jetty.