# HW4_0

## Q1. notes to all annotations
  In annotation.md file
## Q2. explain how the below annotation specifies the table in the database?
```
@Column(columnDefinition = "varchar(255) default 'John Snow'")
private String name;
@Column(name="STUDENT_NAME", length=50, nullable=false, unique=false)
private String studentName;
```
the annotations `@Column` are used to specify the mapping between a Java class field and a database column. <br>
1. `@Column(columnDefinition = "varchar(255) default 'John Snow'")` <br>
   Match to the "name" column in the database as the name field is not provided.
   Maximum character length: 255 characters.
   If not provided: default set to 'John Snow'. 
2. `@Column(name="STUDENT_NAME", length=50, nullable=false, unique=false)` <br>
   match the name of the column in the database as "STUDENT_NAME".
   Maximum character length: 50 characters.
   cannot contain null values and can be duplicated.


## Q4. What are the layers in the springboot application? what is the role of each layer?

1. **Controller layer**
    The presentation layer is responsible for handling incoming requests and generating appropriate responses.
    It receives input from users or external systems and delegates the processing to the appropriate layer.
    This layer is typically implemented using controllers, which handle HTTP requests and interact with other layers.
   
2. **Service layer**
    The service layer contains the business logic of the application.
    It provides services that are consumed by the presentation layer.
    The service layer coordinates the interaction between different components of the application.
    It is responsible for processing the data, applying business rules, and performing operations on the data.
       
3. **Repository layer**
    The repository layer is responsible for accessing and managing data from the underlying data source, such as a database.
    It provides an abstraction for data access and encapsulates the database-specific details.
    This layer interacts with the database using frameworks like Spring Data JPA or JDBC.
    Repositories are typically annotated with @Repository and may extend interfaces like CrudRepository or JpaRepository.

## Q5. Describe the flow in all of the layers if an API is called by Postman.
  1. Postman sends HTTP requests to API endpoint and received them by the appropriate controller class.
  2. The controller invokes the corresponding service method to perform business logic: handles the request, processes the data, and applies business rules.
  3. The service may also interact with other services or components as required.
  4. If the service layer needs to interact with the database, it calls the appropriate repository method. Using frameworks like Spring Data JPA or JDBC, the repository layer performs the necessary database operations such as querying, inserting, updating, or deleting data.

## Q6. What is the application.properties? do you know application.yml?
  They are configuration files commonly used in Spring Boot applications to specify various settings and properties. <br>
  1. `application.properties`:
    uses the key-value pair format for configuration. <br>
    It allows you to define properties for different aspects of the application, such as server configurations, database connections, logging settings, etc. <br>
Each property is defined with the format key=value, where the key represents the property name, and the value represents its corresponding setting.
  2. `application.yml`: 
    an alternative configuration file format that uses YAML (YAML Ain't Markup Language). <br>
    In application.yml, properties are defined in a nested and hierarchical structure using indentation, colons, and hyphens. <br>
    It supports lists, maps, and complex data structures, making it easier to represent structured configurations.
## Q7. Create a Project, name it with mongo-blog, write a POST API for mongo-blog, change the database to MongoDB.
        Complete in the coding part. 
