
# Homework41
#Chingpo Lin

-----

## 1. List all of the new annotations to your annotaitons.md and explain its role

###controller: 
  - Normal
    - @RestController
    - @RequestParam
    - @RequestMapping
    - @RequestBody
  - Graphql
    - @Controller
    - @QueryMapping
### Dao
  - @Repository
### Entity
  - Mysql
    - @Entity
    - @Table
    - @Column
  - MongoDB
    - @Document
### Service
  - @Service

## 2. how do you do the debug?

search chatgpt or debug myself by using debug in intelliJ or sout or log from lombok library

--- 

## 3. What is DTO, VO, Payload, DO, model?

- DTO: used to encapsulate data from entity data with optimized use case
- VO: immutable object 
- Payload: data or content in msg or request
- DO: DB object or entity
- Model: refer to an object that represents data and behavior

---

## 4. What is @JsonProperty

- define property when transfer into Json data

---

## 5. do you know what is jackson?

JSON parsing and generation, and can do object mapping

---

## 6. What is spring-boot-starter? 

to start springboot 

what dependecies in the below starter? do you know any starters?

spring-boot-starter  
spring-boot-starter-web  
spring-boot-starter-tomcat  

other like spring-boot-starter-data-jpa, spring-boot-starter-test

---

## 7. do you know  @RequestMapping(value = "/users", method = RequestMethod.POST) ? could you list CRUD by this style?

yes, same as @PostMapping  
@RequestMapping(value = "/users", method = RequestMethod.PUT)   
@RequestMapping(value = "/users", method = RequestMethod.GET)    
@RequestMapping(value = "/users", method = RequestMethod.DELETE)  

## 8. What is ResponseEntity? why do we need it?

provide entire HTTP response like code, headers, and response body.  

better test and status code to show

---

## 9. What is ResultSet in jdbc? and describe the flow how to get data using JDBC

to retrieve database query, set of data returned.

- create resource
- create statement
- execute query
- get data from result set by nect or others
- process data
- close resource
  
---

## 10. What is the ORM framework?

orm(object-relational mapping) is a framework to map object-oriented code to relational db, and with use of ORM framework, we don't need to write complex sql.

---

## 11. Learn how to use ObjectMapper by this example.

FoodOutlet foodOutlet = objectMapper.readValue(resBody, FoodOutlet.class);
String s = objectMapper.writeValueAsString(foodOutlet);
objectMapper.readTree() // learn how to use it?

---

## 12. What is the serialization and desrialization?


Serialization is the process of converting an object's state into a format that can be stored or transmitted and later reconstructed. It involves converting the object's data and internal structure into a byte stream, which can be written to a file, sent over a network, or stored in a database. Serialization allows objects to be persisted and transferred between different systems or processes.

Deserialization, on the other hand, is the process of reconstructing an object from its serialized form. It involves taking the byte stream or serialized data and recreating the object with its original state and structure.

---

## 13. use stream api to get the average of the array [20, 3, 78, 9, 6, 53, 73, 99, 24, 32].

double avg = Arrays.stream(array)
    .average()
    .orElse(0);


